[2021-01-13T18:00:19.483Z]  <heathervescent>    present+
[2021-01-13T18:00:30.000Z]  <agropper>  present+
[2021-01-13T18:00:39.531Z]  <rhiaro>    present+
[2021-01-13T18:00:43.140Z]  <Phil>  present+
[2021-01-13T18:01:01.011Z]  <identitywoman> present+
[2021-01-13T18:01:01.893Z]  <manu>  present+
[2021-01-13T18:01:03.063Z]  <Alan_Karp> present+
[2021-01-13T18:01:04.063Z]  <Jim_StClair> present+
[2021-01-13T18:01:15.034Z]  <rgrant>    present+
[2021-01-13T18:01:20.727Z]  <dlongley>  present+
[2021-01-13T18:01:30.849Z]  <heathervescent>    Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jan/0018.html
[2021-01-13T18:01:35.058Z]  <Christopher_Lemmer_Webber> present+
[2021-01-13T18:01:36.303Z]  <justin_r>  present+
[2021-01-13T18:02:40.778Z]  <wayne_>    present+
[2021-01-13T18:02:44.391Z]  <JoeAndrieu>    present+
[2021-01-13T18:02:48.977Z]  <wayne> present+
[2021-01-13T18:03:10.861Z]  <dmitriz>   present+
[2021-01-13T18:03:28.338Z]  <Marty_Reed>    present+
[2021-01-13T18:04:18.145Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:04:40.586Z]  <TallTed>   present+
[2021-01-13T18:06:26.434Z]  <tayken>    present+
[2021-01-13T18:06:45.380Z]  <Drummond>  present+
[2021-01-13T18:07:05.308Z]  <Nikos_Fotiou>  present+
[2021-01-13T18:07:08.926Z]  <dhh>    present+
[2021-01-13T18:08:20.627Z]  <rhiaro>    scribe: rhiaro
[2021-01-13T18:08:33.863Z]  <rhiaro>    Topic: Intros
[2021-01-13T18:08:41.690Z]  <rhiaro>    heathervescent: anyone new who would like to introduce themselves?
[2021-01-13T18:08:57.662Z]  <Mandy_Venables>    q+ intro
[2021-01-13T18:08:58.283Z]  <heathervescent>    ack Alan Karp
[2021-01-13T18:09:00.031Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:09:15.739Z]  <rhiaro>    AlanKarp: I've been doing capabilities since I reinvented them in 1996 and I want to make sure we get it right, because when newbies start to use them there are plenty of mistakes that can be made
[2021-01-13T18:09:19.062Z]  <heathervescent>    ack intro
[2021-01-13T18:09:31.079Z]  <rhiaro>    mandy: I work at digital bazaar and I'm interested in getting to know what this group is all about
[2021-01-13T18:10:02.704Z]  <econnell>  present+
[2021-01-13T18:10:09.457Z]  <rhiaro>    cwebber2: I worked on the zcap-ld spec with mark miller, I'm currently independent, I have worked with digital bazaar in the past
[2021-01-13T18:10:26.708Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I've been involved in this community since about 2017, and also had involvement in the work on DID stuff and the verifiable credentials spec, though not as heavily as others in this group
[2021-01-13T18:10:31.820Z]  <rhiaro>    heathervescent: great to see you back
[2021-01-13T18:10:34.239Z]  <rhiaro>    ... anyone else?
[2021-01-13T18:11:03.767Z]  <rhiaro>    Topic: Open community items
[2021-01-13T18:11:07.366Z]  <heathervescent>    https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2021-01-13T18:11:12.987Z]  <rhiaro>    heathervescent: one I want to talk about
[2021-01-13T18:11:24.368Z]  <heathervescent>    #142: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/142
[2021-01-13T18:11:28.695Z]  <rhiaro>    ... issue 142 which is updating the CCG licenses
[2021-01-13T18:11:47.286Z]  <rhiaro>    ... part of some of the cleanup of making sure all of the repos in the ccg are using the official approved ccg license
[2021-01-13T18:12:05.624Z]  <rhiaro>    ... ken did a lot of work earlier to make sure we knew exactly what those licenses needed to be and then before the end of the year i went through and manually updated many
[2021-01-13T18:12:14.426Z]  <rhiaro>    ... all with a few exceptions
[2021-01-13T18:12:20.622Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and tried to make a comment, you can see the exceptions
[2021-01-13T18:12:23.516Z]  <heathervescent>    License exceptions: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/142#issuecomment-751925176
[2021-01-13T18:12:41.214Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there are 5 repos that had other licenses associated with them so we're trying to clean those up
[2021-01-13T18:12:45.624Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a lot are LDS ones
[2021-01-13T18:13:10.962Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if you are working on those can you take a look at the issues list? I've put an issue in those repos to be able to get approval because they already have a license, we need to follow proper protocol that everyone working on the repo agrees to move over to CCG licenses
[2021-01-13T18:13:43.715Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:13:46.503Z]  <manu>   q+
[2021-01-13T18:13:48.430Z]  <rhiaro>    ... as I was doing this cleanup there were a lot of top level linked data repos and one of the things i'd like to have a conversation about moving forward is can we have general linked data folder and all these methods of doing them can go underneath them? to clean up the repo structure of the CCG
[2021-01-13T18:13:59.196Z]  <heathervescent>    ack manu
[2021-01-13T18:14:08.917Z]  <rhiaro>    manu: we should probably have a more in depth conversationa bout it, I understand the desire to organise everything under one repo, the issue has to do with IPR issues between the different methods
[2021-01-13T18:14:32.720Z]  <rhiaro>    ... while they're all linked data security related, some crypto suites have very different maturity, timelines, and the IPR stuff around it gets potentially confusing. We should talk about it a bit more
[2021-01-13T18:14:41.222Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'm concerned about putting it all in one
[2021-01-13T18:14:53.353Z]  <rhiaro>    heathervescent: that makes sense
[2021-01-13T18:15:04.528Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we can put this up as an issue in an upcoming meeting. It's on my list, but after the election
[2021-01-13T18:15:19.222Z]  <rhiaro>    Topic: Election charter
[2021-01-13T18:15:39.122Z]  <rhiaro>    wayne: we need to decide what constitutes membership and have better language to be more inclusive of people who contribute to work items but are busy for a few months
[2021-01-13T18:15:47.786Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:15:55.386Z]  <rhiaro>    ... perhaps there is a requirement for meeting attendance, but you could do fewer meetings if you actively contribute to work items, we can have balance
[2021-01-13T18:16:01.862Z]  <rhiaro>    ... will be ready by the end of the week
[2021-01-13T18:16:21.361Z]  <rhiaro>    heathervescent: we'll have updated language to share, then leave a week for feedback and commentary, then after the community has accepted it we can kick off the election timeline
[2021-01-13T18:16:31.963Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we should expect to get that charter data through email on the list?
[2021-01-13T18:16:33.094Z]  <rhiaro>    wayne: yep
[2021-01-13T18:16:34.792Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:16:45.625Z]  <rhiaro>    Topic: OCAPs/zCAPs
[2021-01-13T18:17:35.626Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: I'm excited that we're having this conversation
[2021-01-13T18:17:46.969Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I knew that in starting the thread that it would go somewhere and it's great to see this is where it is
[2021-01-13T18:18:01.930Z]  <rhiaro>    ... before we get going I want to say one of the things I do is listen to the conversaiton across a wide range of the community
[2021-01-13T18:18:17.747Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I was worried that some folks were going to go off and invent / create something new to solve problems that another part of the community  had already been working on
[2021-01-13T18:18:23.276Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I want to invite collaboration sooner rather than later
[2021-01-13T18:18:39.048Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I want to start off by having Alan explain what an object capability is so we baseline for all those listening who dont' know
[2021-01-13T18:18:56.626Z]  <rhiaro>    AlanKarp: a capability or an OCAP is an unforgeable, transferable, permission to use the thing it designates
[2021-01-13T18:19:02.618Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it combines designation with authorization
[2021-01-13T18:19:21.048Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: often it's contrasted with another security model known as an access control list (ACL)
[2021-01-13T18:19:48.171Z]  <rhiaro>    AlanKarp: an ACL specifically separates designation from authorization. When you make a request you prove your identity/role/attributes and the system looks up among your permissions if one of them matches the request you're making and then it will allow it
[2021-01-13T18:19:56.104Z]  <rhiaro>    ... searching over all of your permissions is the fatal flaw in ACLs
[2021-01-13T18:20:05.628Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: questions related to understanding what we're talking about
[2021-01-13T18:20:07.226Z]  <DavidC>    q+
[2021-01-13T18:20:17.673Z]  <heathervescent>    ack DavidC
[2021-01-13T18:20:22.483Z]  <cwebber2>  q+
[2021-01-13T18:20:31.289Z]  <rhiaro>    DavidC: "the fatal flaw" - I would say it's a major benefit as well
[2021-01-13T18:20:38.854Z]  <Alan_Karp> q?
[2021-01-13T18:20:45.248Z]  <manu>   q+ alan
[2021-01-13T18:20:45.886Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it might be a flaw to some, but to others it's a benefit to have a level of indirection between the assignment and presentation and gaining access
[2021-01-13T18:20:53.937Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:21:02.616Z]  <heathervescent>    ack cwebber2
[2021-01-13T18:21:03.477Z]  <rhiaro>    cwebber2: it might also be useful to frame how this has come up in this community
[2021-01-13T18:21:15.623Z]  <rhiaro>    ... which is that at the time of the zcap-ld spec, there was already another spec in this space
[2021-01-13T18:21:26.118Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it's come up whether there ought to be two specs. The other is the verifiable credentails spec
[2021-01-13T18:21:30.878Z]  <rhiaro>    ... which is about claims that x says y about z
[2021-01-13T18:21:35.764Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it's largely about information provenance
[2021-01-13T18:21:43.538Z]  <Alan_Karp> q+
[2021-01-13T18:21:46.386Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it's completely possible to build an authority system on top of claims about identities
[2021-01-13T18:21:57.349Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and when you do that you'll notice it resembles strongly alan's description of the ACL system
[2021-01-13T18:22:21.336Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there have been some, the concerns from the ocap perspective about why we want them separate, it is valuable ot be able to describe claims about what has happened, properties about identities, so VC makes sense
[2021-01-13T18:22:27.971Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the risk is you want to have a couple of thing specifically separated
[2021-01-13T18:22:45.632Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one is that you could accidentally end up building your system such that it has the vulnerabilities that ACLs have of ambient authority and confused deputies
[2021-01-13T18:22:57.360Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the second thing is that there are the zcap-ld spec is very specific and limited in the kind of terminology it permits
[2021-01-13T18:23:24.340Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it includes a way to hook into things like an arbiter deciding whether something should happen, but does not have the space for attaching some other information other than here is who we give it out to and here are the caveats on which it is valid
[2021-01-13T18:23:28.319Z]  <rhiaro>    ... which can be viewed in a programmatic way
[2021-01-13T18:23:34.075Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and here is an invocation making use of one of those capabilities
[2021-01-13T18:23:53.680Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a reason to bring this up is that one of the debates is how would you encode something such as the ...
[2021-01-13T18:24:06.738Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: I was just trying to have people ask really basic questions about what are we talking about
[2021-01-13T18:24:13.098Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:24:18.425Z]  <heathervescent>    ack alan
[2021-01-13T18:24:25.192Z]  <heathervescent>    ack Alan_Karp
[2021-01-13T18:24:30.626Z]  <rhiaro>    AlanKarp: to respond to David, chris mentioned the real flaw with ACLs is the confused deputy vulnerability that is unavoidable
[2021-01-13T18:24:31.738Z]  <DavidC>    q+
[2021-01-13T18:24:46.259Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and you don't lose that separation, that feature you get with ACLs, because you can use the ACL to decide what capability to grant to someone
[2021-01-13T18:24:56.968Z]  <rhiaro>    ... all your structure for role/attribute based access control is valid, it's when you use it that matters
[2021-01-13T18:25:03.724Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you use it when you want to grant the authority, not when someone wants to use one
[2021-01-13T18:25:11.045Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: I hope folks have grasped the core aspects
[2021-01-13T18:25:15.641Z]  <manu>   omg, I'm so happy this call is happening.
[2021-01-13T18:25:42.262Z]  <dlongley>  +1 and another way of putting it is that capabilities provide an *additional* abstraction on top of a role-based system, it doesn't take away
[2021-01-13T18:25:12.609Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:25:56.353Z]  <rhiaro>    danielh: we needed a general mechanism to explain how all vcs can explain where data came from
[2021-01-13T18:26:03.982Z]  <rhiaro>    ... authorization data is one kind, and you can use it to construct a chain of delegation
[2021-01-13T18:26:08.279Z]  <rhiaro>    ... which is a feature you need with ocap type things
[2021-01-13T18:26:31.996Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and also use it to say, you're a small mom&pop employer with 5 employees but when you creeate an employee credential for them you insert the name of th employee in the credential and you want to say I got this data off their passport
[2021-01-13T18:26:44.221Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so the name has a greater reputation associated with it than just your reputation as a mom&pop business that nobody has heard of
[2021-01-13T18:26:54.408Z]  <rhiaro>    ... attaching provenance to that kind of claim, and about claims about authority, felt like the same problem
[2021-01-13T18:27:03.134Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:27:31.994Z]  <rhiaro>    samsmith: I'm trying to solve the automated reasoning problem in a decentralized world where information flows between disparate entities
[2021-01-13T18:27:38.753Z]  <rhiaro>    ... security guarantees about that information require cross entity flow
[2021-01-13T18:27:49.266Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the mechanism for enabling that means i need to be able to securely attribute information thorughotu the system
[2021-01-13T18:28:07.731Z]  <rhiaro>    ... when you use the term verifiable in VCs, people understand it means verify the authenticity, but most people think it means verify the accuracy or veracity of the data in the credential
[2021-01-13T18:28:12.346Z]  <rhiaro>    ... but what we really want is secure attribution
[2021-01-13T18:28:24.212Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if i think about automated reasoning, it's satisfaction, goals and constraints in order to make a decision, to take action
[2021-01-13T18:28:40.962Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so I want to provenance all of the information that i use because the info comes from a sauce that is not authentic I can't trust it
[2021-01-13T18:28:50.698Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so regardless of its accuracy, if i can't attribute it, i shouldn't include it in my decision making process
[2021-01-13T18:29:05.406Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the whole idea of building security attributed provenance is a super semantic, a baseline for a decentralized world
[2021-01-13T18:29:08.707Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it requires some form of chaining
[2021-01-13T18:29:21.630Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if you're provanancing information and doing decision making you'll likely have not a chain but a tree or a graph
[2021-01-13T18:29:22.380Z]  <rhiaro>    ... an attribution graph
[2021-01-13T18:29:22.853Z]  <cwebber2>  q+ to talk about attribution within ocaps, particularly certificate ocaps
[2021-01-13T18:29:43.577Z]  <heathervescent>    ack DavidC
[2021-01-13T18:29:50.956Z]  <rhiaro>    DavidC: I think it's possible for confused deputy to apply to capabilities
[2021-01-13T18:29:53.402Z]  <cwebber2>  q-
[2021-01-13T18:29:56.037Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: we'll get to the middle of the conversation!
[2021-01-13T18:30:10.960Z]  <rhiaro>    ... trying not to go into the weeds, trying to support folks not in the original conversation
[2021-01-13T18:30:19.166Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a lot of people did not read 40,000 words and follow the whole thing
[2021-01-13T18:30:34.577Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:31:00.625Z]  <rhiaro>    cwebber2: I have a response to the checking of information and provenance chains.. it relates to one of the emails.. but it does go into the weeds
[2021-01-13T18:31:03.094Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: let's wait for the weeds
[2021-01-13T18:31:30.130Z]  <manu>   q+
[2021-01-13T18:31:35.980Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I know manu didn't chime in much, so I'd love to hear from manu what you would like our audience to understand about it
[2021-01-13T18:31:47.947Z]  <rhiaro>    manu: largely it's a conversation that has been going on for a very long time. nearing decades.
[2021-01-13T18:31:58.747Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and there are various people here approaching a set of problems from different perspectives which is really good
[2021-01-13T18:32:05.627Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'm really happy we're talking about this together
[2021-01-13T18:32:06.041Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:32:12.566Z]  <heathervescent>    ack manu
[2021-01-13T18:32:12.618Z]  <rhiaro>    ... i'm concerned about it's very easy to get lost in the weeds
[2021-01-13T18:32:25.779Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and leave a whole bunch of people behind when you're talking about the intricacies about what's better and what allows you to do more
[2021-01-13T18:32:35.623Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there are a whole bunch of different use case that need to be looked at an analysed
[2021-01-13T18:32:45.626Z]  <rhiaro>    ... everyone here has good intentions and wants to solve these problems in the best way
[2021-01-13T18:32:48.414Z]  <rhiaro>    ... everyone is operating from good faith
[2021-01-13T18:32:59.167Z]  <rhiaro>    ... nobody sees this set of discussions as a we're going to pick A or B. like there's an epic struggle. it's not that
[2021-01-13T18:33:05.627Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and that there are going to be people who win or lose
[2021-01-13T18:33:16.825Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one of the strengths of the community is that you let many flowers bloom and see how that stuff happens in th emarket
[2021-01-13T18:33:26.766Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the main thing here is to make sure that folks are well aware of the concerns in all approaches
[2021-01-13T18:33:29.675Z]  <Alan_Karp> Kaliya, I'd like to avoid discussing whether or not to use ocaps and focus on using VCs for ocaps.
[2021-01-13T18:33:31.466Z]  <rhiaro>    ... before we go forward
[2021-01-13T18:33:37.300Z]  <Alan_Karp> q+
[2021-01-13T18:33:41.698Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:33:48.354Z]  <heathervescent>    ack Alan_Karp
[2021-01-13T18:34:13.457Z]  <rhiaro>    AlanKarp: I think this meeting will do better if we avoid the question of whether or not to use ocaps, and focus on the thread which is whether VCs are the right vehicle for ocaps
[2021-01-13T18:34:19.764Z]  <cwebber2>  q+
[2021-01-13T18:34:39.258Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: I'd love to hear from the main protagonists in the thread talk about what the conversation was and where it got to
[2021-01-13T18:34:42.392Z]  <Alan_Karp> q+
[2021-01-13T18:34:42.903Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:35:03.957Z]  <samsmith> q+
[2021-01-13T18:35:33.260Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:35:39.524Z]  <heathervescent>    ack cwebber2
[2021-01-13T18:35:45.697Z]  <rhiaro>    cwebber2: I think it's worthwhile trying to be illustrative of the differences
[2021-01-13T18:35:52.529Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the classic VC example is a drivers license
[2021-01-13T18:35:57.603Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we can imagine those used in a car driving scenario
[2021-01-13T18:36:18.641Z]  <rhiaro>    ... another way we can think about things is whether or not how we can tell how far a car has been driven and how much gas is in the car
[2021-01-13T18:36:24.021Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you would look at the odometer and the fuel guage
[2021-01-13T18:36:32.778Z]  <rhiaro>    ... that would be a VC type approach. the fuel guage says x the odometer says y
[2021-01-13T18:36:40.892Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you're making a judgment about whether to trust the fuel guage and the odometer
[2021-01-13T18:36:43.526Z]  <rhiaro>    ... they could be lying
[2021-01-13T18:36:47.689Z]  <agropper>  q+ to try again
[2021-01-13T18:36:52.298Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it's now the person who has received the VC who has the information
[2021-01-13T18:37:12.043Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one thing that is curios about certificate style capabilities is by encoding them as data we can replay time in a way that we can see what happened to find out what has occurred
[2021-01-13T18:37:35.627Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a different way to find out the gas and mileage is take your timelord friends blue box, travel back to when the car rolls of the lot and watch every time th e person starts driving and refuels the tank
[2021-01-13T18:37:39.293Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and calculate it up to that moment
[2021-01-13T18:37:45.622Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you could use a playback to find out the current state of the car
[2021-01-13T18:37:55.626Z]  <rhiaro>    ... ohmigosh you have this information about what has occurred anyway
[2021-01-13T18:38:02.992Z]  <rhiaro>    ... that's another thing that contributes to the feeling that these are the same things
[2021-01-13T18:38:16.049Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one of the things is reflective. one is about what they believe to be true, and one is about th ething is happening
[2021-01-13T18:38:22.582Z]  <heathervescent>    ack Alan_Karp
[2021-01-13T18:38:23.930Z]  <rhiaro>    AlanKarp: my view of the discussion
[2021-01-13T18:38:36.628Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I understand the discussion it's whether to have a separate standard for ocaps or include ocaps in the vc standard
[2021-01-13T18:38:40.872Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and the concerns that chris has raised are very valid
[2021-01-13T18:38:46.197Z]  <rhiaro>    ... as the discussion went on the real point is there is a lot of boilerplate
[2021-01-13T18:38:48.862Z]  <rhiaro>    ... how you sign, define namespaces
[2021-01-13T18:38:51.881Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a lot of that can be reused
[2021-01-13T18:39:04.851Z]  <DavidC>    q+
[2021-01-13T18:39:06.217Z]  <dmitriz>   q+
[2021-01-13T18:39:07.606Z]  <rhiaro>    ... so the concern is that if we combine two things that may have very different primary use cases we'll ahve overlapping confusion
[2021-01-13T18:39:19.486Z]  <rhiaro>    ... as the discussion went on we got down the point where we can have a type
[2021-01-13T18:39:25.625Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and they use different feeds
[2021-01-13T18:39:32.747Z]  <rhiaro>    ... as it got down the only discussion was is that difference a should or a must
[2021-01-13T18:39:42.638Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'm in favour of MUST
[2021-01-13T18:39:45.465Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:39:51.082Z]  <heathervescent>    ack samsmith
[2021-01-13T18:39:55.625Z]  <rhiaro>    samsmith: I haven't been following the latest stuff
[2021-01-13T18:39:59.821Z]  <cwebber2>  q+
[2021-01-13T18:40:11.252Z]  <rhiaro>    ... based on what alan just said, the discussion is about should ocaps be a separate spec or in VCs, that's a different quesiton than what started the discussion
[2021-01-13T18:40:16.515Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I want to be clear that we may be on two different planes now
[2021-01-13T18:40:32.906Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the original point of the discussion was is there a way to securely provenance data where the provanence uses a chaining semantic
[2021-01-13T18:40:35.428Z]  <Alan_Karp> q+
[2021-01-13T18:40:36.431Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it doesn't matter what the data is
[2021-01-13T18:40:50.627Z]  <rhiaro>    ... as daniel said if I'm chaining things there is a tendency to chain authorizations as long as i can chain anything else
[2021-01-13T18:40:54.513Z]  <rhiaro>    ... is there a home for a chaining semantic?
[2021-01-13T18:41:03.323Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if we have a chaining semantic for credentials, where would that home be?
[2021-01-13T18:41:19.416Z]  <rhiaro>    ... my hypothesis is the correct home for a chaining semantic, because there are many use cases that have nothing to do with authorization, where should that home be
[2021-01-13T18:41:24.057Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if it's the VC spec, the discussion is over
[2021-01-13T18:41:31.638Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and it's a different discussion to say what do we use that chaining semantic for?
[2021-01-13T18:41:35.622Z]  <rhiaro>    ... something about open loops
[2021-01-13T18:41:41.790Z]  <rhiaro>    ... what cwebber2 said is getting at the distinction
[2021-01-13T18:41:57.802Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if' I'm doing open loop decision processes such as an event sourcing high volume application, I want to use a different sematnic than a closed loop reflective process
[2021-01-13T18:42:12.391Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you say I have to be ocap like / closed loop like, then I can't do certain things when I'm doing an open loop decision making model
[2021-01-13T18:42:19.550Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there are advantages to both but they're not the same and you can't make one be the other
[2021-01-13T18:42:25.624Z]  <rhiaro>    ... they are fundamentally incompatible
[2021-01-13T18:42:34.150Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I want to do open loop decision processes with VCs and i need a chaining semantic
[2021-01-13T18:42:41.414Z]  <rhiaro>    ... is VC the right place to put a chaining semantic?
[2021-01-13T18:42:49.455Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if not, VCs are uninteresting to me
[2021-01-13T18:42:52.319Z]  <rhiaro>    ... has nothing to do with ocaps
[2021-01-13T18:43:16.345Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:43:24.356Z]  <heathervescent>    ack agropper
[2021-01-13T18:43:41.375Z]  <rhiaro>    agropper: I cannot understand anything that is being said so far today
[2021-01-13T18:43:49.311Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I see this discussion only in the discussion in the context of authorization
[2021-01-13T18:43:57.573Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I've worked on a set of slides which kaliya and others have seen
[2021-01-13T18:44:07.691Z]  <rhiaro>    ... to try and figure out the role of authorization in the broader context of what you're talking about
[2021-01-13T18:44:13.898Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I cannot detach this conversation from the protocols involved in authorization
[2021-01-13T18:44:20.630Z]  <rhiaro>    ... but I'll keep listening, even though I am completely lost
[2021-01-13T18:44:37.477Z]  <Jim_StClair>   Great point @agropper
[2021-01-13T18:44:31.562Z]  <rhiaro>    DavidC: I can bring historical perspective
[2021-01-13T18:44:34.558Z]  <heathervescent>    ack DavidC
[2021-01-13T18:44:51.494Z]  <rhiaro>    ... my feeling is that VCs are an evolution of the original ECMA attribute certificat model in the 1990s which was followed by x509
[2021-01-13T18:44:56.284Z]  <rhiaro>    ... i had discussions with Alan in 2011 about this
[2021-01-13T18:45:02.746Z]  <rhiaro>    ... when we implemented the x509 attribute cert infra
[2021-01-13T18:45:10.790Z]  <rhiaro>    ... at that time we agreed they can act as capabilities as well
[2021-01-13T18:45:19.171Z]  <rhiaro>    ... when alan started today he said an ocap is an unforgeable transferable permission
[2021-01-13T18:45:22.134Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it is an authorization token
[2021-01-13T18:45:25.624Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can use VCs to do both
[2021-01-13T18:45:35.510Z]  <rhiaro>    ... when he said we've got to the point of saying we should identify with the type, I agree
[2021-01-13T18:45:39.344Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and it should be a MUST
[2021-01-13T18:45:43.640Z]  <manu>   q+ right tool for right job
[2021-01-13T18:45:48.602Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and if we indicate in the type we've potentially solved the problem
[2021-01-13T18:45:57.112Z]  <heathervescent>    ack dmitriz
[2021-01-13T18:46:13.952Z]  <rhiaro>    dmitriz: echo that one way to think about VCs vs capabilities is at least the way zcap spec is constructed, they are a profle of a VC
[2021-01-13T18:46:18.106Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a specialised credential used for authorization
[2021-01-13T18:46:30.659Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I am curious about the thing sam brought up, whether chaining semantics belong in VCs as a first class mechanism
[2021-01-13T18:46:30.787Z]  <DavidC>    +1 to specialised
[2021-01-13T18:46:36.887Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'd like to hear more about what open reasoning is
[2021-01-13T18:46:51.431Z]  <rhiaro>    cwebber2: something alan said about it being a type issue
[2021-01-13T18:47:00.723Z]  <heathervescent>    ack cwebber2
[2021-01-13T18:47:07.918Z]  <rhiaro>    ... worthwhile noting that alan and orie were on a call, orie had put together a demonstration of how to layer zcaps to augment VCs
[2021-01-13T18:47:19.229Z]  <rhiaro>    ... through that conversation part of the thing was a lot of these properties look very similar so could we reuse them
[2021-01-13T18:47:22.663Z]  <rhiaro>    ... that's a positive conversation to have
[2021-01-13T18:47:32.302Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if we can reuse properties if they are behaving the same across both i see no reason not to
[2021-01-13T18:47:40.738Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if there's a way they are behaving differently we can use a different property
[2021-01-13T18:47:45.626Z]  <rhiaro>    ... let's reuse the ones we can
[2021-01-13T18:47:50.630Z]  <rhiaro>    ... sounded like increasing consensus on that
[2021-01-13T18:48:26.618Z]  <rhiaro>    ... on what type is chosen?  I think the important thing is that since the use of verifiable credentials vs the use of zcaps or ocaps are very different, because zcaps have a specific algorithm that includes the caveats mechanism, whcih is different that VCs are
[2021-01-13T18:48:41.820Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and that there are additional properties you may want to attach to a VC that should not apply to whether or not to accept a capability invocation as valid
[2021-01-13T18:48:59.389Z]  <rhiaro>    ... this is important because you want to be able to reply everything and end up in the same state which might not happen otherwise
[2021-01-13T18:49:09.166Z]  <rhiaro>    ... i agree there is an opportunity for collaboration where we can reduce the friction between to two
[2021-01-13T18:49:18.381Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if we reuse properties, but have two types that are not included at the same time
[2021-01-13T18:49:25.624Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and the mechanisms used for both are two different algorithms
[2021-01-13T18:49:29.237Z]  <heathervescent>    ack Alan_Karp
[2021-01-13T18:49:31.026Z]  <rhiaro>    AlanKarp: chaining is absolutely critical for ocaps
[2021-01-13T18:49:35.631Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there's a difference in the provenance
[2021-01-13T18:49:42.355Z]  <rhiaro>    ... after the provenance that matters is the root of the delegation chain in ocaps
[2021-01-13T18:49:47.270Z]  <manu>   q?
[2021-01-13T18:49:50.965Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I expect the prov of each step matters in what sam is interested in
[2021-01-13T18:49:53.914Z]  <rhiaro>    ... one difference is in revocation
[2021-01-13T18:50:04.467Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in claims type vcs you don't know who is going to look at the thing to decide if it's important
[2021-01-13T18:50:06.346Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in ocaps you do
[2021-01-13T18:50:17.919Z]  <rhiaro>    ... revocation in ocaps is simply telling the resources, the verifier, don't honour this thing any more
[2021-01-13T18:50:23.751Z]  <samsmith> q+
[2021-01-13T18:50:24.931Z]  <dhh>    q+
[2021-01-13T18:50:25.967Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you need something more like a CRL (Certificate Revocation List) for the claims
[2021-01-13T18:50:41.738Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it's awful. If you don't know how is going to look at the cert you have to have some means to find out it's revoked
[2021-01-13T18:51:40.526Z]  <agropper>  What Alan just said is an example why I can't see detaching the cap from the protocol.
[2021-01-13T18:50:51.587Z]  <heathervescent>    ack manu
[2021-01-13T18:50:56.487Z]  <rhiaro>    manu: jumping high on the stack, people are seeing why it's so difficult to have this conversation
[2021-01-13T18:51:02.227Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it's hard to outline the differences without getting into the weeds
[2021-01-13T18:51:26.635Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can do authorisation using both mechanisms, and you can chain using both mechanisms
[2021-01-13T18:51:32.163Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the core issue is using a hammer to drive in a screw
[2021-01-13T18:51:35.642Z]  <rhiaro>    ... that is the difference
[2021-01-13T18:51:42.320Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it's basically wrong tool for the wrong job
[2021-01-13T18:51:50.695Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the folks that are saying zcaps are really doing something different that what vcs are doing
[2021-01-13T18:51:56.182Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there is an algorithmic difference
[2021-01-13T18:52:10.804Z]  <rhiaro>    ... what is being said is I know you're holding a screw and you're trying to use a hammer to drive the screw in, you should use a screwdriver
[2021-01-13T18:52:16.759Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you'll get the job done but that thing is not going to be very strong
[2021-01-13T18:52:21.158Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you've damaged something by doing that
[2021-01-13T18:52:30.624Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if there's one thing folks can take away, you can do all of these things using either tech
[2021-01-13T18:52:41.012Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:52:42.472Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the debate is whether there's a better tool and a better way to protect developers from making the wrong decision
[2021-01-13T18:52:01.469Z]  <dhh>    -1 to hammer and screw
[2021-01-13T18:52:17.330Z]  <dhh>    I think this is a misleading metaphor
[2021-01-13T18:52:33.477Z]  <DavidC>    +1 to Daniel
[2021-01-13T18:51:50.423Z]  <DavidC>    -1 to hammer and screw
[2021-01-13T18:52:49.564Z]  <heathervescent>    ack samsmith
[2021-01-13T18:53:10.337Z]  <cwebber2>  q+ to ask do we need to have this be an either or approach?
[2021-01-13T18:53:11.806Z]  <rhiaro>    samsmith: alan said I have no idea what manu just referred to because without making specific reference to what the hammer and screw is, it doesn't help
[2021-01-13T18:53:26.159Z]  <rhiaro>    ... but what alan said about revocation is one of the core issues between what i'm calling open loop and closed loop models
[2021-01-13T18:53:31.424Z]  <rhiaro>    ... are you going back to the source to verify whether or not
[2021-01-13T18:53:40.057Z]  <manu>   The point is that "While you can use them together, they don't go well together" :)
[2021-01-13T18:53:41.495Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in a token oauth model, if i issue something using a set of keys and sign with those keys
[2021-01-13T18:53:45.625Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and the token is presented back to the issuer
[2021-01-13T18:53:53.942Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if the keys have rotated, the token is automatically revoked
[2021-01-13T18:54:02.992Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in an open loop model you need some registry, a verifiable data registry, of revocation
[2021-01-13T18:54:10.670Z]  <rhiaro>    ... revocation isn't automatic, it requires a separate action from the issuer
[2021-01-13T18:54:13.033Z]  <rhiaro>    ... things are valid until revoked
[2021-01-13T18:54:23.589Z]  <rhiaro>    ... what the open model allows you to do is separate your key management chain from your issuance revocation chain
[2021-01-13T18:54:32.029Z]  <rhiaro>    ... rotation of a key doesn't automatically imply revocation of a credential
[2021-01-13T18:54:35.781Z]  <Alan_Karp> q+ can issue cert to DID instead of key
[2021-01-13T18:54:39.415Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you can separately rotate keys and credentials are still valid
[2021-01-13T18:54:42.898Z]  <rhiaro>    ... that's a fundamental property
[2021-01-13T18:54:53.892Z]  <rhiaro>    danielh: to manu's metaphor, I find it very troubling and misleading
[2021-01-13T18:54:59.525Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'm not just trying to deal with nails and screws
[2021-01-13T18:55:07.062Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'm trying to deal with various other kinds of fasteners
[2021-01-13T18:55:08.712Z]  <heathervescent>    ack dhh
[2021-01-13T18:55:22.099Z]  <rhiaro>    ... there are many different things I"m trying to work with and screws (ocaps) is just one of many
[2021-01-13T18:55:28.099Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if I have to pick one tool over all of them which tool will I use?
[2021-01-13T18:55:34.454Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you could say you don't have to pick one tool for all
[2021-01-13T18:55:41.051Z]  <rhiaro>    ... it's too early for us to introduce lots of different standards
[2021-01-13T18:55:52.477Z]  <rhiaro>    ... at an early stage in an ecosystem you don't develop a whole bunch of specialised tooling
[2021-01-13T18:55:57.637Z]  <rhiaro>    ... you use the tools you have to develop experience
[2021-01-13T18:56:06.512Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in 2-5 years we might have more experience to make the finer distinction
[2021-01-13T18:55:25.256Z]  <manu>   (VCs are the hammer) -- (Authorization is the screw)
[2021-01-13T18:54:35.493Z]  <agropper>  I was hoping to hear from Justin
[2021-01-13T18:56:15.628Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: vcs are the hammer and authorization is the screw
[2021-01-13T18:56:18.115Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2021-01-13T18:56:23.140Z]  <heathervescent>    ack cwebber2
[2021-01-13T18:56:38.451Z]  <rhiaro>    cwebber2: as much as I'm concerned that it's critical to separate these things, the question should be what decision should this grop make?
[2021-01-13T18:56:45.629Z]  <rhiaro>    ... a top down decision that we have to combine these things or not?
[2021-01-13T18:57:04.507Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if the people working on zcaps would liek them to be separate but are interested in collaborating on trying to use the same properties? is there any harm in that? would we benefit if we end up taking that approach?
[2021-01-13T18:57:11.387Z]  <heathervescent>    ack Alan_karp
[2021-01-13T18:57:21.948Z]  <samsmith> @manu   The dictionary definition of credential is synonymous with authorization.  So using your metaphor means we are taking about phillips heads vs flat head screws
[2021-01-13T18:57:26.586Z]  <rhiaro>    AlanKarp: on manu's analogy, i think it's driving a nail with a screwdriver, it works...
[2021-01-13T18:57:34.144Z]  <heathervescent>    ack DavidC
[2021-01-13T18:57:57.779Z]  <cwebber2>  the CCG is walking into a 30 year old argument
[2021-01-13T18:57:49.419Z]  <rhiaro>    DavidC: capabilities are a subset and specialisation of VCs. The revocation further highlights that
[2021-01-13T18:58:04.055Z]  <rhiaro>    ... in vcs when you're chaining properties, anybody in the chain can do a revocation. with capabilities only the root can. that's a specialisation
[2021-01-13T18:58:12.851Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: what should this group do next?
[2021-01-13T18:58:36.409Z]  <rhiaro>    ... if folks were to use IRC to answer that question, we're not going to solve it in 3 minutes
[2021-01-13T18:58:44.240Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I was given permission by the chairs to say we can have a part 2
[2021-01-13T18:58:56.083Z]  <rhiaro>    ... that can be centered around the next action for this group, and if there's clarity in that starting to sketch out a charter
[2021-01-13T18:59:12.972Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I feel like the conversation got to a place because some parts of the community have more mutual understanding, though I do hear there is still some confusion
[2021-01-13T18:59:13.925Z]  <heathervescent>    q+
[2021-01-13T18:59:24.337Z]  <rhiaro>    ... I'm grateful for everybody's participation in the conversation and hope we can support the synergies
[2021-01-13T18:58:13.903Z]  <cwebber2>  I'm not sure we're going to solve it over 1-hour meetings, so the real question is how to best collaborate
[2021-01-13T18:58:14.653Z]  <Alan_Karp> Anyone on the chain can revoke subsequent delegations.
[2021-01-13T18:58:33.840Z]  <tayken>    Have to hop off...BIG thanks to @Kaliya + @Amy + Heather/chairs for managing the weeds (and doggos). Nothing worth doing comes easy!
[2021-01-13T18:58:42.619Z]  <manu>   I believe the CCG process calls for a cage fight in a Roman-style arena next. :P
[2021-01-13T18:58:49.192Z]  <cwebber2>  lol
[2021-01-13T18:58:54.295Z]  <agropper>  We need to be talking about protocols before we return to data models.
[2021-01-13T18:59:34.423Z]  <rhiaro>    heathervescent: from a chair perspective, for part 2 how can we structure this conversation
[2021-01-13T18:59:41.282Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we knew it was going to be a bunch of different levels
[2021-01-13T18:59:48.856Z]  <manu>   q+
[2021-01-13T18:59:49.178Z]  <rhiaro>    ... how can we structure it to get some productive outcomes for the community?
[2021-01-13T18:59:54.725Z]  <agropper>  q+
[2021-01-13T18:59:55.822Z]  <heathervescent>    ack heathervescent
[2021-01-13T19:00:00.315Z]  <heathervescent>    ack manu
[2021-01-13T19:00:00.340Z]  <rhiaro>    manu: what are folks afraid of?
[2021-01-13T19:00:10.330Z]  <rhiaro>    ... write down what folks are concerned about if one path is taken over the other
[2021-01-13T19:00:23.220Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and what problems are you trying to solve? could folks help walk through how that problem is solved using either approach
[2021-01-13T19:00:42.571Z]  <rhiaro>    identitywoman: I had the impression from what Sam said, it may be worth starting another thread specifically about the question that you named
[2021-01-13T19:00:53.836Z]  <rhiaro>    ... we're at the top of the hour. it's over!
[2021-01-13T19:00:53.034Z]  <cwebber2>  I do have a suggestion but I guess I should throw it to the mailing list at this time
[2021-01-13T19:01:06.994Z]  <rhiaro>    heathervescent: the chairs will circle back with kaliya and we'll figure out a process for moving forward
[2021-01-13T19:01:09.500Z]  <rhiaro>    ... No call next week
[2021-01-13T19:01:11.861Z]  <rhiaro>    ... Back on the 27th
[2021-01-13T19:01:17.690Z]  <rhiaro>    ... about Verifiable Requests
[2021-01-13T19:01:22.930Z]  <rhiaro>    ... the earliest we could pick this up is in February
[2021-01-13T19:01:27.681Z]  <rhiaro>    ... and we'll have chair election details asap
[2021-01-13T19:01:31.091Z]  <rhiaro>    ... thanks for coming!
